Ever since I was a teenager
starting to play around
with neural networks,
I just felt that
the dream of maybe
someday building an AI system
that's as intelligent as myself
or as intelligent
as a typical human,
that that was one of the
most inspiring dreams of AI.
I still hold that
dream alive today.
But I think that the
path to get there is
not clear and could
be very difficult.
I don't know whether
it would take us mere
decades and whether we'll
see breakthroughs
within our lifetimes,
or if it may take centuries
or even longer to get there.
Let's take a look
at what this AGI,
artificial general
intelligence dream is
like and speculate a
bit on what might
be possible paths,
unclear paths, difficult
paths to get there someday.
I think there's been a
lot of unnecessary hype
about AGI or artificial
general intelligence.
Maybe one reason for that is AI
actually includes two
very different things.
One is ANI which
stands for artificial
narrow intelligence.
This is an AI system
that does one thing,
a narrow task, sometimes
really well and can be
incredibly valuable,
such as the smart speaker or
self-driving car or web search,
or AI applied to
specific applications such
as farming or factories.
Over the last several years,
ANI has made tremendous
progress and it's creating,
as you know, tremendous
value in the world today.
Because ANI is a subset of AI,
the rapid progress in ANI
makes it logically true that
AI has also made tremendous
progress in the last decade.
There's a different idea in AI,
which is AGI, artificial
general intelligence.
There's hope of
building AI systems
that could do anything
a typical human can do.
Despite all the progress in
ANI and therefore
tremendous progress in AI,
I'm not sure how much
progress, if any,
we're really making toward AGI.
I think all the progress
in ANI has made people
conclude correctly that there's
tremendous progress in AI.
But that has caused some
people to conclude,
I think incorrectly that
a lot of progress in AI
necessarily means
that there's a lot
of progress towards AGI.
If you have else
about AI and AGI,
sometimes you might find drawing
this picture useful
for explaining some of
the things going on in AI as
well and some of the sources
of unnecessary hype about AGI.
With the rise of
modern deep learning,
we started to simulate
neurons and with
faster and faster computers and
even GPUs we can simulate
even more neurons.
I think there was this big hope
many years ago that, boy,
if only we could simulate a
lot of neurons then we can
simulate the human
brain or something like
a human brain and we've
really intelligent systems.
Sadly, it's turned out not to
be quite as simple as that.
I think two reasons
for this is first,
if you look at the
artificial neural
networks we're building,
they are so simple that
a logistic regression unit
is really nothing like what
any biological neuron
is doing is so much
simpler than what any neuron
in your brain or mine is doing.
Second, even to this day,
I think we have almost no
idea how the brain works.
There are still
fundamental questions
about how exactly does
a neuron map from inputs to
outputs that we just
don't know today.
Trying to simulate
that in a computer,
much less a single logistic
function is just so
far from an accurate model of
what the human brain
actually does.
Given our very limited
understanding both
now and probably for
the near future of how
the human brain works,
I think just trying to
simulate the human brain as
a path to AGI will be an
incredibly difficult path.
Having said that, is there
any hope of within
our lifetimes seeing
breakthroughs in AGI?
Let me share with you
some evidence that
helps me keep that hope
alive, at least for myself.
There have been some
fascinating experiments done on
animals that shows or strongly
suggests that the same piece of
biological brain tissue can do
a surprisingly wide
range of tasks.
This has led to the one learning
algorithm hypothesis
that maybe a lot
of intelligence could be due to
one or a small handful
of learning algorithms.
If only we could figure out what
that one or small handful
of algorithms are,
we may be able to implement
that in a computer someday.
Let me share with you some
details of those experiments.
This is a result
due to Roe et al.
from many decades ago.
The part of your brain shown
here is your auditory cortex,
and your brain is wired to feed
signals from your ears
in the form of
electrical impulses,
depending on what
sound your ear is
detecting to that
auditory cortex.
It turns out that if
you were to rewire
an animal brain,s to cut
the wire between the ear
and the auditory cortex,
and instead feed in images
to the auditory cortex,
then the auditory
cortex learns to see.
Auditory refers to sound,
and so this piece of the brain
that in most people
learns to here,
when it is fed different data,
it instead learns to see.
Here's another example.
This part of your brain is
your somatosensory cortex,
somatosensory refers
to touch processing.
If you were to similarly rewire
the brain to cut
the connection from
the touch sensors to that
part of the brain and instead
rewire the brain
to feed in images,
then the somatosensory
cortex learns to see.
There's been a sequence
of experiments like this,
showing that many different
parts of the brain,
just depending on what data
is given can learn to see,
or learn to feel,
or learn to hear as if there was
maybe one algorithm that
just depending on what
data or this given,
learns to process that
inputs accordingly.
There happens systems built
which take a camera
may be mounted to
someone's forehead and
maps it to a pattern
of voltages in a grid
on someone's tongue.
By mapping a grayscale image
to a pattern of voltages
on your tongue,
this can help people
that are not cited
line individuals learn
to see with your tongue,
or they've been fascinating
experiments with
human echolocation
or humans sonar,
so animals like dolphins
and bats use sonar to see,
and researchers have found
that if you train humans
to make clicking sounds,
and listen to how that
bounces off surroundings,
humans can sometimes learn
some degree of
human echolocation.
Or this is a haptic belt,
and my research lab
at Stanford once
built something like
this before as well,
but if you mount a ring of
buzzes around your waist
and program it using a
magnetic compass, so that say,
the buzzers to the
North most direction
are always vibrating slowly,
then you somehow gain
a direction sense,
which some animals
have, but humans don't.
Then it just feels like you're
walking around and you
just know where North is,
it doesn't feel like that
part of my waist is buzzing,
it feels like, oh, I know
where that north is.
Or surgeries implant a third eye
onto frog and the brain
just learns with you
with this input.
There have been a variety of
experiments like
these just showing
that the human brain is
amazingly adaptable,
neuroscientists say
is amazingly plastic,
they just mean adaptable to
bewildering range
of sensor inputs,
and so the question is,
if the same piece of brain
tissue can learn to see,
or touch, or feel,
or even other things,
what is the average of users,
and can we replicate
this algorithm
and implemented in a computer?
I do feel bad for the
frog and other animals,
or which these
experiments were done,
although I think the conclusions
are also quite fascinating.
Even to this day, I think
working on AGI is one of
the most fascinating science
and engineering
problems of all time,
and maybe you will choose
someday to do research on it.
However, I think it's important
to avoid over-hyping,
I don't know if the
brain is really
one or a small handful
of algorithms,
and even if it were,
I have no idea,
and I don't think anyone
knows what the algorithm is,
but I still this hope alive,
and maybe it is,
and maybe we could,
through a lot of hard work,
someday discover an
approximation to it.
I still find this one of the
most fascinating topics,
I really think about it in
my spare time and maybe someday,
you be the one to make a
contribution to this problem.
In the short term, I think
even without pursuing AGI,
machine learning
and neural networks
are very powerful tool,
and even without
trying to go all
the way to build
human-level intelligence,
I think you find
neural networks to be
an incredibly powerful,
and useful set of tools
for applications that
you might build.
That's it for the required
videos of this week,
congratulations on getting to
this point in the lessons.
After this, we'll also have
a few optional videos
to dive a little bit
more deeply into
efficient implementations
of neural networks.
In particular, in the
optional videos to come,
I'd like to share with
you some details of how
to vectorize implementations
of neural networks.
I hope you also take a
look at those videos.